{{Extension
|name = HookAssetLoader
|status = beta
|type = parserhook
|author = Andrew Lehti
|version = 1.0.2
|license = MIT
|download = https://github.com/andylehti/HookAssetLoader
|readme = https://github.com/andylehti/HookAssetLoader/blob/main/README.md
|requires = MediaWiki 1.39+
|compatibility policy = master
|description = Loads administrator-approved JS/CSS assets from the MediaWiki namespace only when a page explicitly requests them via a parser tag, keeping site styles clean and optimized.
|rights = hookassetloader-manage
|tags = parser hook, ResourceLoader, JavaScript, CSS
}}

'''HookAssetLoader''' is a MediaWiki extension that loads administrator-approved JavaScript and CSS assets from the {{ns:8}} namespace only when a page explicitly requests them via a parser tag.

It is intended for page-specific layouts, page tools, and controlled interface assets that should not be placed in global site files such as {{ll|Manual:Interface/Stylesheets|MediaWiki:Common.css}} or {{ll|Manual:Interface/JavaScript|MediaWiki:Common.js}}.

== Features ==

* Adds the <code>&lt;hook-load module="name"&gt;</code> parser tag.
* Adds <code>&lt;hookasset name="name"&gt;</code> as an alias.
* Loads CSS from approved <code>MediaWiki:HookAsset-name.css</code> pages.
* Loads JavaScript from approved <code>MediaWiki:HookAsset-name.js</code> pages.
* Uses ResourceLoader instead of raw script or style injection.
* Requires each asset to be approved in <code>MediaWiki:HookAssetLoader.json</code>.
* Restricts asset management pages with the <code>hookassetloader-manage</code> right.
* Allows per-asset ResourceLoader dependencies.

== Requirements ==

* MediaWiki 1.39 or later.
* No required extension dependencies.

== Installation ==

Download and place the files in a directory called <code>HookAssetLoader</code> in your <code>extensions/</code> folder.

Add the following code at the bottom of your <code>LocalSettings.php</code>:

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
wfLoadExtension( 'HookAssetLoader' );
</syntaxhighlight>

Run the update script if your deployment workflow requires it:

<syntaxhighlight lang="bash">
php maintenance/run.php update
</syntaxhighlight>

== Configuration ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Setting
! Default
! Description
|-
| <code>$wgHookAssetLoaderRegistryPage</code>
| <code>HookAssetLoader.json</code>
| MediaWiki namespace page used as the approval registry.
|-
| <code>$wgHookAssetLoaderAssetPrefix</code>
| <code>HookAsset-</code>
| Prefix used for controlled CSS and JavaScript asset pages.
|-
| <code>$wgHookAssetLoaderDefaultDependencies</code>
| <code>[ 'mediawiki.util', 'jquery' ]</code>
| Default ResourceLoader dependencies for JavaScript assets when an asset does not define its own dependencies.
|-
| <code>$wgHookAssetLoaderDebugErrors</code>
| <code>true</code>
| Whether invalid or missing asset requests should render inline error messages.
|}

== Rights ==

HookAssetLoader adds the following right:

* <code>hookassetloader-manage</code>

By default, the right is granted to <code>interface-admin</code>. A site may grant it to another trusted group in <code>LocalSettings.php</code>:

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
$wgGroupPermissions['sysop']['hookassetloader-manage'] = true;
</syntaxhighlight>

Grant this right only to users trusted to manage site JavaScript and CSS.

== Registry page ==

Create <code>MediaWiki:HookAssetLoader.json</code>:

<syntaxhighlight lang="json">
{
	"assets": {
		"clean-wide": {
			"enabled": true,
			"styles": true,
			"scripts": false
		},
		"floating-toc": {
			"enabled": true,
			"styles": true,
			"scripts": true,
			"dependencies": [
				"mediawiki.util",
				"jquery"
			]
		}
	}
}
</syntaxhighlight>

== Asset pages ==

For an asset named <code>clean-wide</code>, create one or both pages:

<pre>
MediaWiki:HookAsset-clean-wide.css
MediaWiki:HookAsset-clean-wide.js
</pre>

== Usage ==

<syntaxhighlight lang="html">
<hook-load module="clean-wide"></hook-load>
</syntaxhighlight>

With wrapped content:

<syntaxhighlight lang="html">
<hook-load module="sticky-note">
Please remember to sign posts using four tildes.
</hook-load>
</syntaxhighlight>

== Security ==

Asset names must match this pattern:

<pre>
^[a-z][a-z0-9-]{0,63}$
</pre>

The parser tag cannot load arbitrary URLs, arbitrary page titles, raw inline JavaScript, or raw inline CSS. It can only load approved ResourceLoader modules generated from controlled pages in the {{ns:8}} namespace.

== Similar extensions ==

* {{ll|Extension:Gadgets}} — provides user-selectable or default gadgets. HookAssetLoader is parser-tag driven and registry-controlled.
* {{ll|Extension:TemplateStyles}} — loads sanitized template CSS. HookAssetLoader supports both JavaScript and CSS through ResourceLoader.
* {{ll|Extension:CSS}} — allows page-level CSS. HookAssetLoader adds explicit registry approval and JavaScript support.

== See also ==

* {{ll|ResourceLoader}}
* {{ll|Manual:Tag extensions}}
* {{ll|Manual:Interface/JavaScript}}
* {{ll|Manual:Interface/Stylesheets}}

[[Category:Parser extensions]]
[[Category:Extensions using ResourceLoader]]
[[Category:Extensions]]
