{{PD Help Page}}

# HookAssetLoader

HookAssetLoader lets trusted editors place approved page-specific JavaScript and CSS assets on a page without loading those assets globally across the wiki.

Use it when a page needs a specific layout, interactive element, or page tool that should not be part of every page.

## Basic usage

<syntaxhighlight lang="html">
<hook-load module="clean-wide"></hook-load>
</syntaxhighlight>

The module name must already be approved by an administrator in <code>MediaWiki:HookAssetLoader.json</code>.

## Usage with content

Some assets may read content placed inside the tag:

<syntaxhighlight lang="html">
<hook-load module="sticky-note">
Please remember to sign your posts using four tildes.
</hook-load>
</syntaxhighlight>

The exact behavior depends on the JavaScript and CSS written by the administrator for that asset.

## Alias syntax

<syntaxhighlight lang="html">
<hookasset name="clean-wide"></hookasset>
</syntaxhighlight>

## Errors

If the module name is missing, invalid, not approved, or has no matching CSS/JavaScript page, the extension may show an inline error. Administrators can disable inline errors with <code>$wgHookAssetLoaderDebugErrors = false;</code>.

## Asset names

Asset names must use lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens only. They must begin with a letter.

Valid examples:

<pre>
clean-wide
sticky-note
floating-toc
research-layout-2
</pre>

Invalid examples:

<pre>
../common
MediaWiki:Common.js
https://example.com/script.js
clean_wide
CleanWide
</pre>

## Administrator notes

Administrators approve assets in <code>MediaWiki:HookAssetLoader.json</code> and create matching pages such as:

<pre>
MediaWiki:HookAsset-clean-wide.css
MediaWiki:HookAsset-clean-wide.js
</pre>

Only users with the <code>hookassetloader-manage</code> right should be allowed to manage these pages.
